Now we are listing the users and let's also add a link functionality to these users.
So whenever we click any of them, let's open the user page for that user.
Again, we are going to start with the test, but since this test is going to be having the redirection,
it is better to use the app component for the testing because it is bringing every components together.
So a test like redirection would be more maintainable in that one.
Otherwise, if it tested in this user list, then we either need to mock the routing module or we need
to add user page to the test module, which would couple these two components together.
And we don't want that.
So let's add the test to the app.
So opening the app component spec, now let's add the test and just adding after the navigation test.
So this is the end of the navigation test.
So here adding the test, it navigates to user page when clicking the user name on user list.
Now this test is going to be similar to this one.
The previous test for the navigation, if you remember, we were clicking to the link elements and for
this test we were wrapping our test with the fake sync and we were in control of the async works and
we could just move to the next one by calling the tick and we will do the same thing here.
So this is going to be like this again, fake async.
This is a function and we are passing our test function to this.
And this test function is also going to be async.
And let's have the test now we are going to open the home page.
So let's call the router navigate to.
The root URL.
Like this one.
Then we are going to make a request to get the users.
So we need to have the HTP testing controller here in the compound.
We didn't use it, but now we need it.
So we have the client testing module, but we don't have the issue.
TB testing control.
So let's have a variable of it here.
HTTP testing controller and it is this type of variable and we are going to inject it just like we did
for the router.
We are going to get this TB testing controller by calling test, but inject the TB testing controller.
So we are going to.
Handle the request coming for the user list.
So let's have it like this stupid testing controller and we can go with expect one bypassing this function.
So we would be handling all the requests coming to this testing controller.
We know that it's going to be just the load users, so in the request we can return that response accordingly.
So as a response we will return request flush.
And.
We will return content three and for this case we can return just a single element, single user like
this id one user name is user one and email is user one at gmail.com and page is going to be zero.
Size is, let's say three and total pages is one.
So we have only one user in the application.
So after the response to let's force UI to update the exchanges, now we are going to get the element
list item.
But since we are going to have the navigation for the navigation, we can use the anchor.
So let's say we will have anchor element wrapping this user name here.
So the query will be like this.
We will get query selector.
We will get this list item.
And the list item is.
Opening the component here.
This item is this one.
We can use these classes like this group item to query that list element.
And like this the class we are looking for an element having this class.
And in that one, there will be an anchor.
So we can access to the anchor element like this.
So anchor will be child of the this element.
So in the end, we will get the let's say this is the link to user page.
So this is the link and we are going to click to this one.
And previously we did this here we were calling the clicked on calling tick then fixture detect changes.
So I'm just copying these lines here.
Because we will do the same things.
But the difference is we are just going to click, click to the link to user page, click and running
take and calling fixture changes to complete the navigation.
Then in the end we will see the the user page so we can query like this user page.
This is the taste ID for user.
So we will be seeing the user page.
We can also do one more assertion here which is highly correlated with this one.
We have the navigation like let's open the browser module, we have the parts like this user and ID
so we can check this one as well.
So for this case, we will see the path to be user forward slash one and we can do that by accessing
to the location and we can access the location like this.
Let's have the variable first location, location and this is the location from Angular Common and we
are going to inject it right here.
Location, testbed inject location.
Now in the test we can check the pad like this.
We expect location pad to be two equal to this one.
It's going to be user one.
So the test is ready.
Let's open the karma saving this one.
So the test is failing, but the test failure is happening at this line.
So we have the TB testing controller.
It is saying there is no request matching to the criteria.
The criteria is we capture all the requests, but there is no request and that's because we forget to
call the fixture.
The deck changes.
So after the navigation is completed, we, we want home page to be rendered and we achieve that by
calling the fixture data exchange.
So saving this one again.
Now we have different failure, and that's because the link to user pages does not have any link functionality
yet because we are trying to get the anchor and that fails so we cannot click to anything.
Now let's fix this.
So opening the user list component for a solution, we can do something like this.
We can have an anchor.
Opening and closing and moving this user username into that anchor.
Now we are going to use the router link.
If you remember, we have used that one in the navigation bar for setting the link, but this time we
will have a dynamic link.
So the the value we will set will be dynamic.
So we can achieve that dynamic assignment by using the property binding here and we can do like this.
This is going to be a URL like this user and we are going to end user ID.
So in in child of the anchor, we are displaying user username and in the link word in the ref, we
are using this user's ID and we are having this string concatenation.
So let's say this one.
And the test is passing.
And let's test this one on browser.
Now the the user list is visible like this since we are wrapping the username with anchor.
The anchor style is applied.
So if you hover on these users in the below, you will see the links.
So if I click to this one, it goes to user one.
And if I click to this one, it goes to user three for the router link.
Instead of going like this, we could assign an error and it would be like this.
Just having an array here and we are separating the pad parts with the comma.
So there is this user section, then there is this user ID.
So this would also work.
And the tests are passing.
Now we can go with an alternative solution as well.
We can use dynamic routing functionality or we can call it programmatic redirection.
And so in the user list component.
We can have a function.
Let's say it's going to be navigate and we are going to pass the users ID to this one and it's going
to be number.
Now we are going to use the angular router to handle the navigation.
And to do that we are going to inject.
Rooter.
This is coming from angle router.
And here.
We will call this router and it has this navigate function.
And we will pass an array.
And this is similar to the the navigation we are doing in the test.
We are facing an array and just like we do here, we will add the parts of the path to that area.
Like in the area we will have the user and we will have this ID.
Now we can call this navigate function in the template.
So let's remove the anchor and let's add this functionality to the list item.
So let's add a click event binding and we are just going to call the navigate and we will pass the idea
of this user user ID.
So let's say these changes.
Now we have a couple of failures.
We will fix that.
But first, let's test it on browser and now the style is back to the way it was.
It's not clear at the moment, but we are able to click these.
So I'm just clicking to this user one and here we are navigated to the user one page.
And if I click to user three, we are going to these user three page.
At first, let's fix our tests so we have failures, like we have ten failures.
And those are the tests.
The last one, the last test for the navigation and the user is component tests are failing.
The user list component is are failing because now in the user list we are using a new dependency this
router.
But in user this component, we don't have anything about the routing that that router dependency is
coming from angular router and we didn't import that routing module in the user list component.
So let's import that.
And in the test we are importing the router testing module.
So that's it.
Let's save this one.
Now we have only one failure and let's see the list.
Here we see the user list components are passing and the failing test is this one.
The the navigation test we have added for the user list navigation this test.
And the reason is now.
We don't have the anchor.
Therefore, this is not returning the elements we are looking for.
Therefore there is no click.
So I'm just removing the anchor from this query selector and I'm just querying the list group item and
that's it.
Let's save this one.
And here we see the tests are passing.
So as an implementation sample, I would like to keep this one, this dynamic or programmatic navigation
in the repo so that you can take a look in the future.
And I would like to have a different kind of implementation to be existing in this course project.
And so I will go like this, but you can go whichever way you like.
One more thing for this implementation is I'm just going to set the styling for for the list items here
to indicate that user can click to those.
So at the moment, if, if we hover these, we don't see any change in the cursor, but we should give
that clue to user that these are clickable and we can do that right here, opening the user list component,
CSS setting style for all these items and not going any specific here, just going with the lie and
the cursor will be pointer saving this one.
And if I hover on these list items, now we have this pointer.
So the style is scope to the element.
So even we don't have any specific naming for this style, this is just specific to the user.
So if you have another list item, another component, it will not be affected from this style because
if we just inspect this element here.
Here we have this attribute added to it, which is actually containing the style for the cursor right
here.
So Angular is dynamically generating the selectors, so the styles we are using here won't be affecting
other components.